[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Let's
talk about exclusion.
I take the list and there are certain
items that I wanna keep in the list, and
certain items that I want
to exclude from the list.
I want to filter those items out.
You might end up with a list that has
a whole bunch of numbers in it and
in certain places because of
whatever you were using to
create the list of numbers you
might have some no values.
Or some undefined values and
you wanna filter those things out
cuz you only wanna produce you operations
across a list of real numbers.
So you have some things
that you wanna filter
out.
>> Kyle Simpson: You may wanna filter out
anything that's not an odd number.
When I filter out the evens
by saying my predicate isOdd.
So here, line 1, my isOdd function takes
advantage of the mathematical modulus.
Modulus 2 is gonna return 1 for
an odd number, 0 for an even number.
So what I'm saying here is if
the number returns 1, then
my expression on line one there,
that expression returns true.
So the way that we're gonna
create an exclude function is,
you want your predicate, your function,
should always return true
if you wanna keep it, and non true,
false, if you don't wanna keep it.
So you're making some decision
based only on that value.
This is important.
You don't have any other context
by which to make that decision,
other than the value itself.
That's when a filter applies.
if you have to make the decision about
inclusion versus exclusion based upon more
complex pieces of data than just
the value itself You're gonna reach for
a different tool than filter.
Okay, we'll talk about
that in a little bit.
But if all we need to do is look at
the value itself and decide whether or
not we want to keep it, then we can
simply use a utility like exclude here.
Exclude looks an awful lot like our
transformed it before it takes in
an array,
takes in a predicate function called fn.
You'll notice that I'm
producing a new list.
Again, this is an immutable operation,
immutable principled operation.
So I create a new list and
that new list has potentially fewer
items in it, maybe even none.
So I only push into the list,
on line seven, I only push into the list
if the function that I call with
that value returns me a true value.
So line six, I called the function
that you've passed in.
I give it the value that I'm
currently iterating over.
And if you give me a true value back,
I'm gonna include it,
otherwise I'm going to leave it out.
Pretty straightforward.
So we call exclude down here at the bottom
and we end up with an array list of 1,
3, 5.
Questions about our exclude utility?
Now, could you do exclude as a recursion?
Think about that for a moment,
I bet you could, well I hope you
could, I want to assign
that as a formal exercise,
but maybe over the next break,
think about these operations.
I'm doing them in an iterative format with
for loops because it's very illustrative,
but how would you do it recursively?
>> Kyle Simpson: All right.
So we're gonna exclude
anything that's not odd.
We're gonna exclude the evens
from our operation.
>> Kyle Simpson: Turns out this exclusion,
this filtering is built in a language
by a way of the method called filter.
So we don't have to write our own,
it's available to us.
So now we have map and we have filter.
Now that you've seen
the implementations of them,
it makes a little bit more sense
to you how to use them, right?
By the way, just as a little side note,
my implementation of exclude and
transform so far.
Here's a little bit of corner cutting for
illustrative purposes.
They are not exactly the same.
There are other parameter
values that are passed in,
there are other corner case handlings or
whatever.
Our purpose is to illustrate
the higher level concept rather than to
create a replacement for these methods.
Exclusion is a very common thing.
So let's say you start out with
a list that's produced by some,
you are a consumer of some list or
somebody passes you a list.
The first thing you might wanna do
is transform all the values, so
might call a map on it.
And then you might wanna say after
that transformation there's some
characteristic of those things where some
of those are not ones I want anymore.
So, you'd call .map, and you'd chain
off of that and call .filter, and
you'd end up with an array that
potentially had fewer items in it.
So, that's how we can compose
those two operations together.
That's one way of composing.
Of course you could probably think
about ways to compose map and
filter together that's much more complex
than composing two maps together.
But it's not impossible to do.
Questions about exclusion.
Did we have a question about
transformation in the?
>> Speaker 2: It was kind of just a more
general one.
He's basically asking are map
filter reduce some every for
each the common functional
approaches to problems?
Or are they notions that
come from a different,
more functional domain?
>> Kyle Simpson: Not
sure I understand the question.
Our map filter reduce [INAUDIBLE].
Common functional approaches to problems.
What's confusing me about this question is
that it seems to be asking the same thing
in both clauses.
Are they common functional or
do they come from a functional domain?
That seems to be the same thing to me.
So I'm not sure I can
directly answer the question-
>> Speaker 2: They're a few seconds behind
here so you might add to this.
>> Kyle Simpson: Let me just
speak to it more generally,
if we're waiting for another question.
Some of those in that
list are very functional.
Some of them are more JavaScripty.
Map and we're about to talk about reduce,
very functional.
You'll find that in virtually
all functional implementations.
Filter, pretty common sometimes
filter isn't added and
you can just make filter as a,
filter can be implemented
based upon reduce which is what we're
gonna talk about in just a minute.
So, some implementations will only provide
you the two perimatives of map and
produce and then you build other
high level perimatives on top of
that.
>> Speaker 2: So
yeah added to that there.
>> Kyle Simpson: They
do absolutely come from functional
programming techniques.
The question,
they come from functional programming or
are they just convenience methods?
The implementation of them as chained
prototype methods is about convenience.
But the way that they do the thing they
do, that is very, very functional.
That's an adaptation of that functional
mindset into a JavaScript idiom.